It seems like it's very difficult to do that for the influenza virus.
So it's really easy to make an old school vaccine.
So the, the way the first influenza vaccines were made,
it was actually Jonas. So worked on them in the forties.
You just grow lots of virus and you grow it in eggs by the way, chicken.
Nice.
Literally wait.
Wait. Yeah.
Embryonated so they get fertilized and there's a 10 or 12 day embryo in it and
you put virus in it, it grows up and then you harvest it.
You get about 10 MLS of fluid, and then you take that,
you treat it with from aldehyde or formalin and it inactivates the virus.
So it's no longer infectious <affirmative> and you just inject that into people.
And that was the first flu vaccine it was made for the, the us army actually.
And then it got moved over to people. We still use that old school tech today.
So you're, you're taking, can you help me out here? Okay.
So this is good time to talk about vaccines. Mm-hmm <affirmative> okay.
So you're talking about, you're taking the actual virus, right?
You put it in an egg, you let it grow up.
It's very funny that you put it in an egg. It's very, um, it's very poetic.
Uh, and then, uh, how do you make it not, um,
infectious, not effective or whatever, not infectious, not infectious.
Is that the right term here? Yeah. So how do you make it? Not infectious?
You can.
Treat it with any number of chemicals. That'll disrupt the particle.
So it no longer impacts.
So that, that step of disrupting the particle,
is that very specific to a, a particular variant particle? No.
The same collection of chemicals you can use for all kinds of gotcha. And are,
which have been used for SARS. COVID two vaccines also. So same.
Technology. Okay. So what are, there are several things to ask?
So you called it old school in a way that's, uh, slightly dismissive.
Like people talk about windows 98 or something. <laugh> uh <laugh> uh, so there,
so is there risks involved with it or is it just difficult to produce large
amounts? No, it's.
It's a lot of eggs. It's very easy. I mean,
you could do it in cells and culture, but eggs were convenient and it,
in the 1940s, we didn't have cells in culture. We didn't know how to do that.
So we had to use something else it's easy to do.
But the process of in activating the virus with a chemical makes
it not a best vaccine.
You can make the flu vaccines that we have today,
which are mostly based on this, uh,
inactivation it's called inactivated virus vaccines. Oh.
So like the kind of, uh,
thing it presents to the immune system to train on is not, is not,
is not com it's not close to the act virus.
Yes. That's what we think.
So that's why probably the flu vaccines are just not very good, you know,
60% efficiency at the best. Right. Which is not really good.
What, what does it mean? What is the.
Measure of efficiency for a vaccine? Well, it,
how it does in the general population at preventing influenza at preventing
illness, not infection,
we usually don't measure infection when we're testing a vaccine,
we just measure sickness. That's really easy to score, right?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> you, you, you do a trial and you say, if you feel sick,
give us a call.